- Alrighty! So today...
Let's have a discussion
about justice.
We're about to hit
a turning point
in our fight against Evilus,
so getting back to the
basics couldn't hurt.
- Is that really necessary?
- [Alise] Oh c'mon, humor me!
First, let's start off with
what the word "justice" means.
How would you define it?
- Define it, huh?
I would say maybe
good deeds done
without any expectation
of something in return.
So, a 'balance' more or less.
- Yeah, but, if the good
deeds don't serve a purpose,
it's not any different than
self-righteousness, is it?
- Not really.
If there's some sort of
underlying goal,
then it's narcissism,
which is a far cry
from real justice.
- When we raise the question
of justice being "real"
versus "not real,"
we could argue about it forever.
- Not true.
We pledged to uphold
the Sword and Wings
of Justice, remember?
Our cause is more-
- There she is!
Armchair Philosopher!
(Ryu scoffs)
- What do you mean,
"armchair philosopher"?!
- Yeah, well, I just call
'em like I see 'em, y'know.
- In my opinion...
- [Both] Huh?
- When all is said and done...
Concepts like justice are
but tools of convenience.
A weapon used to
substantiate a cause.
Or dare I say, a blank check
written to warrant violence.
- Kaguya! Must you
always be so cynical?
- [Kaguya] Aww, did I say
something wrong?
- [Ryu] Yes, you did!
Now take it back!
- [Lyla] Do you ever
get tired of arguing?
(mellow music)
(Alise claps)
- That's enough
discussion today!
We'll call it here!
Even the gods themselves,
have a tough time
answering that one.
So there's no use losing
any sleep over it!
- [All] Huh?
- Anyone can wax
poetic about justice.
And they can also abuse it
for their own gain, right?
So instead of trying
to figure it all out,
let's focus on weeding
out the other stuff,
the contrived, phony
kind of justice.
- The phony kind of justice?
- That's correct!
And once that nonsense is gone,
you know what grows
in it's place?
Order, harmony, happiness!
Our Familia!
The Astrea Familia,
wants that true
justice the most!
We don't "bear the
burden" of justice.
If we did, it would destroy us.
So, clearly, it's not
something we wield.
For too often, it can be
applied with poor intentions.
Justice is something we hide.
(all agreeing)
I see you've been stunned
speechless by my wisdom yet
again!
(Alise chuckles)
I mean aren't I great?
(all sigh)
- There she goes
riling everyone up,
just to pat herself
on the back again.
(Kaguya chuckles)
- I wish I could smack
the smile off her face.
(Alise grins)
(Opening Song)
- [Ryu] Noah Heal...
(magic sparkling)
- [Bell] Thank goodness.
- Remember...
The wounds aren't fully healed.
I still believe using
my magic on you,
would have been the
better option, Mr. Cranel.
Thinking about it logically,
it's more efficient.
- We've already been
through this, Miss Ryu.
I need you to be able
to walk on your own.
It should make things a
bit easier on me, too.
- Yes, but-
(Bell dismissing)
Then we've reached an impasse.
Both of us are way
too stubborn to budge.
(Bell agrees)
Very well.
Let's review the situation.
Judging by our surroundings,
we're on the 37th floor.
It seems that we're, without
a doubt, in the White Palace.
However, I can't
quite figure out
which area of
the Floor we're in.
In fact, it's unclear which
direction we ought to go.
We're lacking in both
equipment and items.
Should we continue our journey
and chance fighting
Deep Floor monsters?
Our chances will be very slim.
Because, well,
with the fatigue and
the number of injuries
between us...
We have no potions nor a
means of medical treatment.
Frankly, until my mind gives
out,
we'll have to rely on my
healing magic as best we can.
- So what are you thinking?
Would it be better to wait
for someone to find us?
- I wouldn't get my hopes up.
I can tell we're not anywhere
near the normal route.
This isn't the type of place
that a Familia on an
expedition to the Deep Floors
would just so happen find.
Now, I hate to have to put it
this way,
but even if your friends
guessed our whereabouts,
there's no way they can
make it here by themselves.
- I guess you're right...
- And besides,
until the chaos on the
27th Floor subsides,
no one will volunteer for
this...
Even if they put
out a search quest.
So if we stay here,
eventually, we'll end
up just like them.
(Bell grumbles)
(serious music)
- No matter what happens,
don't let anything get
close to Master Welf!
Is everyone clear?!
(all nod)
(flame roaring)
(Welf grunts)
(blade crumbling)
- Here goes nothin'.
- Forging weapons
in the Dungeon?
Man's got a screw loose.
If those monsters figure out
where we are-
- It's too late to
chicken out now, Bors!
- I know! But even if the
blacksmith does manage
to slap a blade together,
how's that gonna help us?
- We all need to have faith!
(Bors gasps)
He's risking his life
to forge that sword
so we can use it to
get out of this mess!
(Bors gasps)
- It's our only
chance at survival.
Plus, it's our one and only
chance at saving Master Bell!
- We all gotta die sometime.
If you wanna make it home,
then I suggest you start
holding on tight to that shield,
mister.
(Bors grumbles)
- I swear all of Rabbit
Foot's friends are lunatics!
(mermen growling)
They're here!
(Aisha grunting)
- Hell Kaios!
(force rumbling)
- Screw it, make
the stupid sword!
(Bors grunting)
(Ouka grunting)
(arrow piercing)
(merman disintegrating)
(sword slashing)
(Aisha grunting)
(lance piercing)
(Daphne grunting)
(fire roaring)
(serous music)
(Welf grumbles)
(hammer clamoring)
(sword slashing)
(merman groaning)
- You don't have to kill 'em!
Just cut their legs off!
(lance piercing)
(Daphne grunting)
- [Daphne] I don't
even have time to aim!
(both grunting)
(hammer clamoring)
- [Welf] (grumbles) Dammit!
This is what Adamantite's like?!
Gimme a break!
Am I not strong enough
to shape this stuff?!
- [Ryu] In light of
our current situation,
I think we should start
heading for the tunnel.
Eventually, it will lead
us up to the 36th Floor.
- The 36th Floor, huh?
So the Lower Floors?
- Correct.
The Deep Floors' first
safety point,
won't be until we reach
the 39th Floor.
It would be a much more
difficult endeavor
to climb down two floors.
(Bell nods)
Of course...
Even if we make it,
that doesn't mean we're safe.
However, at least the
Lower Floors have water,
nuts, berries and fruit.
That gives us a much
higher chance of survival.
I guess you might
be able to say,
the Lower Floors will be
a little more kind to us,
compared to the Deep ones.
(Bell smiles)
- I suppose you're right
but what about that
connecting tunnel?
How exactly are we supposed to
get there?
- Okay, unfortunately,
the journey'll probably be
unpleasant.
From here on out,
each of our choices
could mean the difference
between life and death.
We'll have to use my magic
sparingly.
We'll try to save it for when
death is the only alternative.
- [Bell] Got it.
- One more thing,
if we're going to traverse
this current Floor,
we will need to procure
more items and equipment.
And water, if possible.
- Okay, but where?
Miss Ryu?
- We have to strip
them of their gear.
(Bell gasps)
- Hey, wait, what are you
talking about, Miss Ryu?!
- We're going to strip
the corpses of their gear
and take what we need
for our own use.
- Are you serious?!
We would be desecrating
their bodies!
- Our fellow slain
adventurers can benefit us.
We don't have a choice in the
matter.
(Bell grumbles)
I'll search the
woman, Mr. Cranel.
You take the men.
(somber music)
(Bell gasps)
- [Bell] Of course.
Miss Ryu...
For a noble Elf like her,
there's no way this
isn't killing her inside.
She's doing it to survive.
Doing it for me.
I'm so sorry.
We just want to make
it home in one piece!
(skeleton clattering)
(Bell retches)
This is the Dungeon.
This is what it means
to be an adventurer!
Anything I say now,
is just an attempt to
rationalize my actions.
But please, let me
say it anyway.
I'm going to live life
enough for all of you.
I can't ask for your
forgiveness.
But because of you,
with your help,
I know that we can escape
from the Deep Floors!
I swear,
we will make it back to the
surface.
- [Ryu] I think that's
about everything.
- [Bell] Yeah...
- Our most valuable discovery
might be this.
- [Bell] Oh. A map.
- Yes.
It's incomplete though
but it covers a large distance,
and details of the
surrounding area.
I can't even imagine how
hopeless they must have felt,
but it's going to be
a huge help to us.
If we know which
routes are dead ends,
we won't have to
take extra risks.
- That's a good point.
I take it this is the
room we're in right now.
If that's the case,
do we have any idea what
part of the Floor we're on?
- 'Fraid not.
The 37th Floor is expansive.
Almost as wide as the
entire city above.
And besides,
I don't recognize the
area on the map, anyway.
Regardless, I've been
to the Deep Floors
countless times before,
so I remember what the
normal route looks like.
- Okay?
- Here's the plan.
If we follow the map,
and use it to guide
ourselves back
to the Dungeon's
normal route, then...
I can easily lead us to
the connecting tunnel.
(Bell gasps)
It seems we have our heading.
- Uh-huh.
- I don't know exactly
what we're going to need.
But let's bring as much of
their gear as we can carry.
(Bell gasps)
(Bell sighs)
- Is there something the matter?
- No... It's just that
they still had food on them...
So I can't help but wonder
why they didn't
make it out alive.
And it's not like they
ran out of potions.
- It may have been a case of
being poisoned by monsters.
- (gasps) That's right!
There aren't any antidotes!
- Presumably...
They used this room as a base
while they were searching
for a safe path home,
but they ended up exhausting
their supply of antidotes.
The poison spread throughout
their bodies.
And once these two
could no longer move,
they pinned their hopes
on their remaining friend.
- How sad.
Their friend failed too.
He couldn't handle the
darkness of the Deep Floors
on his own.
(Bell sighs)
- Mr. Cranel.
- Wait, is that...
A Familia emblem?
- [Ryu] Indeed.
I can't quite make
it out, but...
These guys were desperate.
They probably didn't
have anything else
to draw the map on.
(Bell gasps)
- There's something
written here!
"Forgive us...
My god...
We...
Sorry...
Mom...
Not coming home..."
(Ryu gasps)
Miss Ryu, please help me.
Let's bring this banner
back to the surface.
We have to make it
home, for them!
(somber music)
(both yelling)
(arrow piercing)
(merman disintegrating)
(hammer clamoring)
(serious music)
- [Welf] What the
hell am I doing?
We don't have time for this!
I'm supposed to be forging
a gods-damned magic
sword over here!
(hammer clamoring)
(serious music)
Maybe it was a dumb idea,
crafting a weapon
in the Dungeon.
Did I overestimate myself?
Did I just want to be the first
person who's ever done it?
Did I promise something
I can't deliver
and make my closest friends
stake their lives on it?!
- Lemme ask you again.
Is your fire burning brightly?
- [Welf] Oh it's
burning, alright.
Hotter than the frickin' Sun!
I'm pouring all of my strength,
all of my skills,
all of my pride as
a blacksmith into it!
And yet...
- You sure about that?
Remember what your
family used to say.
"Listen to the metal's voice.
Let its sound ring in your ears.
And then let your soul
move through your hammer."
- [Welf] Shut up!
To hell with the Crozzo family!
All I care about right now is
finishing this stupid sword!
- Why's that?
Why are you doing this in the
first place?
- To craft a weapon!
- Okay, then why are
you crafting a weapon?
- To survive!
- You're wrong.
And that's not what I asked you.
You're gonna have to
dig deeper than that.
And no cop-out answers, either.
So tell me.
Who are you crafting these
weapons for?
(Welf gasps)
(Aisha grunting)
(Daphne grunting)
- Hold them off until Master
Welf's done forging the blade!
- Yeah, I get it!
- Thanks, you guys...
- One last question,
why are you so bent
on doing this?
I need to know.
- It's for my friends...
That's right...
How could I have forgotten
something so painfully obvious?
"Why do I craft weapons?"
I do it for Bell,
for my friends!
(hammer clamoring)
(Welf grunting)
- Oh wow, it's happening.
- Yeah, we dunno what's
so different now
but I'm getting a second wind!
(Welf grunting)
- [Welf] It doesn't matter
how powerful they are.
An ordinary magic sword
isn't gonna cut it!
A magic sword is
guaranteed to break!
Eventually, its wielder
has to say goodbye!
So all I have to do is forge
a blade to beats all blades!
An indestructible magic sword!
- I see then.
I assume Tsubaki went down
into the Dungeon, too?
- Mm-hm.
Naaza and Miach were
the ones who approached her.
And honestly, we're grateful
for all the help we can get.
- Well, it is what
it is, I suppose.
It was an extremely
urgent situation.
Even if I'd tried to stop her,
she would have gone anyway.
Oh, what was the
other thing you wanted?
- Oh, uh, yeah, about that...
Expeditions are kinda expensive,
so would you mind if
we skip the payment
for Bell's knife this
month, pretty please?
- Not happenin'.
- Oh come on, don't be
like that, why?!
- You know why, Hestia.
I have no doubt
that knife has
saved the boy's life
countless times by now.
I mean don't you care about him?
Is his life worth that little to
you?
- Of course I care about him!
(Hestia scoffs)
- Then start coughing up cash.
Prove that you're willing to
do whatever it takes for Bell.
(Hestia pouts)
(Hephaistos smiles)
(hammer clamoring)
(Welf grunting)
- [Welf] That's it, I need
a blade with divine power!
Like the one that she...
That the goddess made.
A weapon of the highest caliber!
Hang in there, Bell...
I'm not gonna turn
my back on you!
We'll walk side by side!
In fact...
If you're not careful,
I might even leave you and
Lady Hephaistos in the dust!
Get ready, 'cause here I come!
(mermen growling)
(Ouka grunts)
(Ouka yells)
(Bors yells)
- Holy crap!
- Ouka!
(Daphne and Lili tremble)
(Cassandra gasps)
(mermen growling)
(flame roaring)
- All right, 'bout damn time.
(intense music)
- [Welf] Sorry for the wait.
(mermen growling)
- Uh-hey!
So what do we do now?!
- Master Welf?
- My magic alone
won't be enough.
Can you lend me a hand?
- Huh? Oh, sure!
- Now the real test.
Let's go!
(mermen growling)
Shikou Kazuki!
(fire roaring)
(Daphne and Lili gasp)
(Welf exhales)
- Master Welf...
- Heya, it's all good to go.
A shatterproof magic sword.
The blade and its wielder
work hand in hand,
standing by each other for life.
(inspirational music)
(Cassandra gasps)
- So that's what the last
part of the prophecy meant.
"The daystar's golden rays"!
- This is the beginning.
The first step of my journey
to take my skills to new
heights!
You put your lives
in my hands...
Take 'em back.
Okay everybody, gear up!
It's time to go find Bell!
- [All] Yeah!
(Cassandra and Lili giggling)
(Ending song)
- [Ryu] Next time. White Palace.